# Suprematism-digital-art-generator
Project with Jason
The artist we have chosen is Kazimir Malevich, who is a Russian artist that founded and focused on the art style of suprematism in around 1915. Suprematism is one of the art movements that focus on basic geometric forms, like circles, squares, lines, and rectangles.

The background of the art pieces in that time were offen white, grey or yellow-ish. We changed the colour mode from RGB to HSB to let us have more control of the colour tone. We programmed the Hue to 60 (yellow) and let the ‘random()’ function generate the value of saturation and brightness to create white, grey and yellow for the background.

Secondly, we created a system for generating the shapes. We coded the ‘random()’  function, let it generate a number between 1 to 4, and used the ‘if’ and ‘else’ function to let it respond according to the number it generated. For example, if it generates ‘1’, it will draw a circle, ‘2’ will be a triangle. etc. And we also made the code only activate a few times in a roll by using the ‘for()’ and ‘random()’ function. The ‘random()’ function generates a number between 6 to 11, and it will become the variable that has been used in the ‘for’ function to set the maximum activation time of the ‘for’ function, which is also variable of the number of the shapes. 

Thirdly, we programmed the codes for the shapes of circle, triangle, rectangle and line by using the ‘drawX()’ function for the system above. For each shape, it has its own colour, size, location and rotation factors that are generated by the ‘random()’ function. Since the colour of the shapes are usually black, red, orange, yellow, blue and green, we also make the randomized colour focus more on those by the method similar to the system above. We set the variable ‘whatColour’ as a random number generated in between 1 to 12, and set each number related to a specific colour. For example, 1 and 2 will be related to colour red, etc. We also used the ‘pushMatrix’ and ‘popMatrix’ to make sure the codes will not be affected by the other function for the other shapes.

Lastly, we also added a ‘keyPressed()’ function to let the user interact with. When the user presses ‘S’ or ‘s’, they will start saving the current artwork in the processing folder, press again to stop. If they press the ‘+’ or ‘-’ symbol, to increase or decrease the numbers of shapes. They can also press the ‘R’ or ‘r’ button to reset the values to the default. Additionally, there are three different colour modes that can be switched by pressing the ‘m’ or ‘M’ key. Pressing it will increase the value of modeX by 1, and reset it’s value to 1 if it is higher than 3. There are 3 modes available, Mode 3 will only have Black, red, yellow and orange. Mode 2 will also include blue and green. Mode 1 will include every colour. The current Mode will also be printed for better indication. 
